An enzyme only works when it is folded into exactly the
right shape. So what happens when the desert heats up?
Folding is a tug of war between order and disorder.
Add heat, and the disorder wins — the chain shakes
loose and falls apart into a useless tangle.
We track the folded fraction as temperature climbs.
It holds steady while the protein is comfortable
— then, past a melting point, it collapses.
That tipping point is the melting temperature. Cross
it, and half the enzyme is already gone.
This single dial gates the whole toolkit: whatever fraction stays
folded is the fraction of enzyme still doing chemistry. Lose
it, and every downstream rate falls with it.